so how does vintage begin
well we sit down as a brewing team and
we think about what we want to do
different this year to last vintages
waves at seven-and-a-half percent
alcohol so that's an important feature
every vintage obviously has pale malt
which is the base of every beer and
generally all the vintages have a lot of
Kristallnacht
but the main element that we change
these year are the hops so this is where
we have a bit of fun as a brewing team
and then we do a little thing called hot
idol where we taste all these beers will
the very tops and then we give them a
score yes so that's what they refer to
in terms the hop height oh yes did you
notice that we wanted more business but
a balanced fitness we've been brewing
vintages and around about the forty
bitterness units we are now moving to
the 60 60 is the new 40
this year you are using a hopper
articled Melba Melba's one that Ellis
Lee of the state deliberately developed
with the mind to it being used in
Cooper's extra-strong into jail Mel were
actually imparts strong stone for a
character to vintage and that I'm
talking the things like peach pencils
probably named after Dane Nellie Melba
Peach Melba for about 100 kilograms or
hops for this year's vintage we have
Melba Nellie and dick secret and then we
drive up with steering goings touch a
cascade or external lift okay one of the
things that we've got on our side with
vintage is the Cooper's ale yeast and
that that I'll used has been in the
family for over a hundred years quality
control at Coopers brewery is exhaustive
yes we leave nothing to chance and if
there's an opportunity to drink the beer
and make sure that it's right we take it
as a vintage I'll be out there
potentially on day three a fermentation
out of a six day fermentation taking a
sample from the fermenter and actually
drinking it from the fermenter I think
we absolutely achieved what we set out
to do 2015 for me is a very exciting
vintage because Melba comes from our
seer friends at Ellis Lee it is sort of
like more of a partnership than any
other year we've tried again to get a
nice balance of aroma hops I think
people will be impressed with the
striking citrus and stone fruit
characters Thomas is out there looking
at us all times he start the company in
1862 so we know we hope is proud of what
we have done 153 years late